generating test transactions with move script (#775)
aptos-labs/developer-docs: apps/nextra/pages/en/build/indexer/indexer-sdk/documentation/advanced-tutorials/txn-script.mdx

---
title: "Aptos Transaction generated using Move Script"
---

import { Callout, Steps } from "nextra/components"

## Overview:

> This section outlines how to create test transactions with Move scripts.

Reviewer: i think it'd help to have details on why you need scripted txn's, and when you would use a scripted txn instead of an imported txn

## Prerequisites

1. Clone the [aptos-core](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core) repository:
    - Navigate to the `aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator` directory.

## How to Generate Test Transactions using Move Script
<Steps>
### Set up `move_fixtures` folder
Before proceeding, ensure you have the move_fixtures folder set up in the appropriate location:
1. Location:

>    The move_fixtures folder should be created in the `aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions` directory. This is the folder where Move scripts and their configurations for test transactions will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `move_fixtures` folder should be created in the `aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions` directory. This is the folder where Move scripts and their configurations for test transactions will be stored.
```

>    <Callout> **Note:** Do not create the `move_fixtures` folder in your processor repository. All Move-related files should reside in the `aptos-core` repository under the specified directory. </Callout>

Reviewer: why can't you put move_fixtures in the processor repository? what if they want to add the fixtures to version control?

2. Steps to set up the follder:
    - if starting fresh, remove all existing files and projects in the `move_fixtures` folder in the aptos-core repo
    - Create your own Move projects/scripts in the move_fixtures folder (detailed in the next step)

 ### Create Your Move Project

    Create your Move project and write a module to output the scenario that you would like to test in your processor. You can refer to an example [here](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/tree/main/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions/move_fixtures).

 ### Set Up Test Accounts

    1. These accounts will be used to deploy your module.

>     2. Set up as many accounts as you need. These accounts will be used to send the scripted transactions. Refer to the guide [here](https://aptos.dev/en/build/cli/setup-cli) to create accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Set up as many accounts as you need. These accounts will be used to send the scripted transactions. Refer to [Aptos CLI](https://aptos.dev/en/build/cli/setup-cli) to create accounts.
```

    2. This configuration file should contain unique transaction names and details for each transaction. The transactions should be listed in the order they are to be executed. Example configuration:
        output_name: the name of the transaction json output
        script_path: the path to the Move script
        sender_address: the address of the account that will send the transaction

        ```yaml
        transactions:
          - output_name: simple_user_script1
            script_path: simple_user_script
            sender_address: <account_address>
          - output_name: simple_user_script2
            script_path: simple_user_script2
            sender_address: <account_address>
        ```

 ### Generate JSON Files and Rust File

    Once the Move files and configuration are set up, run the same command used to import transactions:
    - testing-folder is where your Move files are stored.
    - output-folder can be set to any folder where you want to store the generated files.

    ```bash
        cd ~/aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator

>         cargo run -- --testing-folder ./imported_transactions --output-folder ../indexer-test-transactions/src/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cargo run -- --testing-folder ./imported_transactions --output-folder /path/to/processor/repo/
```

    ```

    This command will:

    1. Read the configuration in the `move_fixtures` folder.
    2. Execute the specified Move scripts.
    3. Output the generated JSON files to the designated folder (`~/aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/json_transactions`).
    4. Update `generated_transactions.rs` with the new transaction names specified in step 3.

</Steps>

## How to Use Test Transactions

- **Export the Generated File**:

    Update the [`mod.rs`](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-indexer-processor-example/blob/main/test-transactions-example/src/json_transactions/mod.rs) file to include the generated Rust file containing the transaction constants.

- **Export the `json_transactions` Folder**:

    Ensure the `json_transactions` folder is properly exported in the library file.

    [Example](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-indexer-processor-example/blob/main/test-transactions-example/src/lib.rs).

- **Add as a Dependency**:

>     Include the crate containing the generated transactions as a dependency in the `Cargo.toml` file of your test crate. (Internally, transactions are stored in `aptos-core` and used in the [processor repo](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-indexer-processors/blob/0c92d323b0f560b5f8601a831a36520ad9b72d68/rust/Cargo.toml#L34)).

Reviewer: not needed as per discussion on previous PR

---

> title: "Aptos Transaction Import"

Reviewer 2: This title doesn't match, since this is using a script instead of an importer

---

## Overview:

> This section outlines the steps for creating a testing transaction with a Move script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section outlines how to create test transactions with Move scripts.
```

> ### Steps:

Reviewer: Do we need a pre-reqs section that includes they need to clone aptos-core?

> 1. **Create Your Move Project**

Reviewer 2: There is a `<Steps>` type, which will handle this automatically.  Take a look at some of the other files on ways to do it, and it'll make it easier.

Author: oh this is nice! thanks for the suggestion!

    Create your Move project and write a module to output the scenario that you would like to test in your processor. You can refer to an example [here](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/tree/main/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions/move_fixtures).

> 2. **Set Up Accounts**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Set Up Test Accounts**
```

    1. These accounts will be used to deploy your module.

>     2. Set up as many accounts as you need. Refer to the guide [here](https://aptos.dev/en/build/cli/setup-cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Set up as many accounts as you need. These accounts will be used to send the scripted transactions. Refer to the guide [here](https://aptos.dev/en/build/cli/setup-cli) to create accounts.
```

    3. Update `aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions/testing_accounts.yaml` with your accounts.

>     > 💡 **Note:** Do not use real accounts here. Only use test accounts created in the CLI specifically for testing.

Reviewer: The `<Callout>` Nextra component might be handy here!

> 3. **Create a Configuration File**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Create a Configuration File**
Each configuration file defines a sequences of transactions for a test scenario.
```

>     1. Create a [configuration file in the `move_fixtures` directory](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/blob/main/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions/move_fixtures/simple_user_script.yaml).

Reviewer: Does the user create the `move_fixtures` folder in their processor repo or in aptos-core? Also creating the `move_fixtures` folder wasn't mentioned previously, we should add it somewhere in the steps.

Author: good point, they will have to create their own folder as well, will add these steps

>     1. Create a [configuration file in the `move_fixtures` directory](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/blob/main/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions/move_fixtures/simple_user_script.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Create a [configuration file in the `move_fixtures` directory](https://github.com/aptos-labs/aptos-core/blob/main/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/imported_transactions/move_fixtures/simple_user_script.yaml). Name the configuration file according to the test scenario it corresponds to. 
```

>     2. This configuration file should include unique transaction names and details for each transaction. Example configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. This configuration file should contain unique transaction names and details for each transaction. The transactions should be listed in the order they are to be executed. Example configuration:
```

        output_name: the name of the transaction json output
        script_path: the path to the Move script
        sender_address: the address of the account that will send the transaction

        ```yaml
        transactions:
          - output_name: simple_user_script1
            script_path: simple_user_script
            sender_address: <account_address>
          - output_name: simple_user_script2
            script_path: simple_user_script2
            sender_address: <account_address>
        ```

4. **Generate JSON Files and Rust File**

    Once the Move files and configuration are set up, run the same command used to import transactions:
    - testing-folder is where your Move files are stored.

>     - output-foler can be set to any folder where you want to store the generated files.

Reviewer 2: typo `output-folder`

    ```bash

>     cargo run -- --testing-folder ./imported_transactions --output-folder ../indexer-test-transactions/src/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    cd ~/aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator
    cargo run -- --testing-folder ./imported_transactions --output-folder ../indexer-test-transactions/src/
```

    ```

    This command will:

    1. Read the configuration in the `move_fixtures` folder.
    2. Execute the specified Move scripts.
    3. Output the generated JSON files to the designated folder (`~/aptos-core/ecosystem/indexer-grpc/indexer-transaction-generator/json_transactions`).
    4. Update `generated_transactions.rs` with the new transaction names specified in step 3.

> ### How to Use the Testing Transactions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### How to Use Test Transactions
```
